adds post about autism in tech (#599)
artsy/artsy.github.io: _posts/2019-12-20-this-blog-post-contains-important-information-for-some-percentage-of-its-readers.markdown

---
layout: epic

> title: This Blog Post Contains Important Information For Some Percentage of its Readers

Reviewer: I disagree with the feedback you got about the title, I think the original "Is this you?" made a lot of sense. Not all blog posts need super SEO-y titles ([example 1](https://artsy.github.io/blog/2018/01/24/kubernetes-and-hokusai/), [example 2](https://artsy.github.io/blog/2015/08/27/swift-trek-2-the-wrath-of-count/)).

I'd recommend something like:

```suggestion
title: "Is this you? No, really, is this you?"
```

Or something like that. The question grabs the reader's interest, and the follow-up reinforces that this post might be for them.

Author: I like this and will take this suggestion, thanks!

date: 2019-12-20
author: myk
categories: [mental-health, culture, diversity, autism, neurodiversity]
comment_id: 598
---

You are a software engineer.

> You consider yourself an introvert, and you subscribe to the idea of "engineering time" where you like to work for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You consider yourself an introvert, and you really appreciate "engineering time", where you prefer to work for
```

extended uninterrupted periods because interruptions wreck you. You are used to being misunderstood. Ever since you
can remember the people around you have been kind of baffling: they constantly fail to notice stuff that's really
obvious and important to you, and then they have the audacity to get frustrated with you for not understanding

> them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_them_.
```

But whatever, you can deal with this, right? This is just how life goes, right? Everyone's like this, right?

Right?

<!-- more -->

It's really been like this as long as you can remember. Maybe even as early as kindergarten, when you distinctly
remember feeling "Wow, I guess all these kids must already know each other?" because how else would they know how
to just start playing together? You might have gotten really, really good at languages -- or you might have
eschewed the humanities entirely and focused on things like Math and Science. Regardless, you were in it for the

> _systems_ -- grammar just _makes sense_ to you, in the same way software engineering eventually would. Math, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_systems_ -- grammar just _makes sense_ to you, in the same way software engineering just _makes sense_ to you now. Math, you
```

finally understood, was just a specialized language for referring to the relations between things -- sure, okay!

> Socially things were always a little weird for you - people were never _quite_ behaving in ways that made sense,

Reviewer: Keeps the whole paragraph in past tense:

```suggestion
Socially, things were always a little weird for you. Other people never _quite_ behaved in ways that made sense to you,
```

> and especially when younger you probably socialized by getting 'adopted' by some other kid who seemed to know what

Reviewer: If there's further reading for "adopted" here, that'd be great to link to 👍

Author: I'm going to hold off on that since any link in this area would potentially spoil the surprise of the punch line below, right? If I were to start linking out to every example this whole thing would be links, and I def want to provide those resources but I think this is not the place to do that, at least for my current strategy.

life you were surrounded by a self-selecting group of peers, some of whom shared your passion for analysis and deep
thinking. You didn't have to go to great lengths to establish a shared context, for instance. You could speak words
that were meaningful to you and someone else could understand and offer a meaningful response, and this made you
feel uncomfortable at first but you really loved it. Your experience of college was maybe a bit different than you
expected - certainly nothing like the movies you watched as a kid. You got really into a weird hobby, maybe, and
didn't end up going to too many parties.

Relationships and intimacy have always been a bit fraught for you. You frequently find yourself trying to figure
out what you're supposed to be feeling, and you work hard to show your partner the person you want to be. Maybe
when you first moved in with someone you had a bit of a freakout that has made you nervous to think about ever
since, or maybe meeting a significant other's family has been so anxiety-inducing as to prove impossible. Maybe you
have a string of failed relationships behind you, each of them starting out so promisingly and then imploding

> catastrophically and confusingly once the initial honeymoon phase is over and it's time to really get to know and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
catastrophically and confusingly once the initial honeymoon phase was over and it was time to really get to know, get to
```

grow with another person. You don't know how to do that, and every time you try you seem to make someone upset.

You're a software engineer at least partly because computers are much easier to communicate with than people. When
a computer doesn't understand you it's because you've done something wrong. When a computer says something
incorrect it's also because you've done something wrong. You can step through and rigorously debug the problem,
identifying and isolating the mistake. The more you played around with tech the more you liked it - and when you
discovered programming it blew your mind, because you _intuitively_ understood the relational nature of computation
and found yourself suddenly gifted with superpowers.

When you entered the working world you were REALLY confused, though. You were able to complete a week's worth of
assignments in an afternoon. It was really obvious to you who was working intelligently and who was not, and you
had to learn, perhaps painfully, that sharing that kind of feedback isn't always constructive. Maybe one day you

> got some criticism about something you did and it really hurt in ways you didn't expect -- maybe you found yourself

Reviewer: I'm wary of having too many disjoint clauses joined by the same construction (`--` in this case). Maybe two sentences will flow better?

```suggestion
got some criticism about something you did and it really hurt in ways you didn't expect. Maybe you found yourself
```

reacting defensively, and the next thing you know you're in a meeting with HR over what to you was clearly all a
big misunderstanding, but nobody is smiling. Or maybe instead someone recognized that you were having a tough time,
and stepped in to defuse the situation.

Regardless, your agency was compromised. You found yourself resenting the arbitrary and unwritten rules of the
professional world: you have to be at your desk and looking busy even when you're just thinking; let people say
things that are not true if correcting them publicly will embarrass someone; people will ignore your advice and

> then something will break because of it and it's very important not to yell at them about it.

Reviewer: "Yell at them" might be too strong, I'm not sure. Up to you:

```suggestion
then something will break because of it and it's very important not to get too upset.
```

> You're used to modeling the world in a specific way, but school doesn't actually prepare you in any way for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're used to modeling the world in a specific way, but school didn't actually prepare you in any way for the
```

after meeting-heavy days. Sure when you get downtime sometimes all you can do is just sit there doing nothing --
maybe you feel bad about that? Maybe you use an abnormally high number of sick days purely for mental health
reasons. Maybe you've got a substance abuse issue. You're probably struggling with codependency, anxiety and/or
depression. You think of yourself as just "a depressed person", but try not to let it define you. You feel
constantly on the edge of burnout, but no matter how many vacations you take it doesn't seem to get any better.

Maybe you are sensitive to certain kinds of sensory stimuli - like, you can't wear synthetic fabric because it just
feels gross. Maybe you can't eat peaches because the peach fuzz on the roof of your mouth is unbearable. Maybe you
can't go into a well-lit room without sunglasses, maybe every sound you hear comes in at the same volume. Maybe a
bunch of these kinds of things or more bother you, and maybe you've forgotten because you've just pushed through
them your whole life. Maybe you've accepted that you're just kind of weird and different.

But maybe -- and this may be the best news you've ever received -- you're autistic.

> Many if not most autistic people would tell you similar stories about their personal histories, especially those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many (if not most) autistic people would tell you similar stories about their personal histories, especially those
```

> who have been undiagnosed into adulthood. If these descriptions resonate with you -- maybe not exactly, but maybe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
who have gone undiagnosed into adulthood. If these descriptions resonate with you -- maybe not exactly, but maybe
```

you can see the shape I'm trying to paint -- then it's worth considering the possibility that you may be

> neurodivergent.

Reviewer: This is a really key part of the post – I feel like it could be emphasized with either **bold text**, or even better, with a link out to further reading.

Autism is one form of neurodiversity, and what I'm describing above is a very autistic experience - but there's a
ton of overlap with ADHD, Dyslexia and other neurodivergent conditions. We've learned so much about neurodiversity
in the past ten years, and even if you consider yourself fairly well-informed about autism it's worth updating your

> understanding if you haven't read the latest findings.

Reviewer: Bit of a run-on sentence, but could be fixed pretty simply:

```suggestion
understanding.
```

you do that you will in all likelihood not see yourself reflected -- those criteria are purely behavioral, while
the experience of being autistic is purely subjective. Non-autistic (or "allistic") experts on autism document
observable behavior but don't actually understand what they're seeing. I tried to
[reframe those criteria](https://theaspergian.com/2019/04/17/humanizing-the-dsm-diagnosis-for-autism/) in a way
that makes them feel human and relatable rather than inhuman and other.

I'm writing this blog post because my own self-diagnosis at age 34 and formal diagnosis this past fall at age 36
changed my life, and I _know for a fact_ that there going to be some autistic people reading this who don't know
that they're autistic.

If you're interested in learning more, I highly recommend perusing
[AutismTranslated](https://reddit.com/r/autismTranslated), a subreddit to make autistic traits more recognizable
and relatable to those of us who subjectively experience them. I'm personally most active
[on twitter](https://twitter.com/mykola) these days and you can always find me there, along with hundreds of other

> folks using the [#actuallyAutistic](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23actuallyAutistic)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
folks using the [#actuallyAutistic](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23actuallyAutistic), 
```

[#askingAutistics](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23askingAutistics) hashtags. Autism is a condition particularly
vulnerable to intersectional dynamics, which means that resources like
[#autisticWhileBlack](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23autisticWhileBlack) and
[/r/aspergirls](https://reddit.com/r/aspergirls) are crucial to folks in those demographics.

Finally, as preparation for this blog post I asked diagnosed neurodivergent tech workers on twitter
[to volunteer if they're willing to answer questions](https://twitter.com/mykola/status/1205927773644214273), and
as of this writing over a hundred people have answered. So if you want to know more about what this is like --
whether you want to better understand yourself or you have other people in your life you want to learn how to
better support -- please check out that thread and the huge number of responses, and don't be afraid to reach out
to people!

If you're autistic and undiagnosed you're living life on hard mode and you don't even know it. Learning who you
are, learning what your authentic needs are and learning how to heal from years of maladaptive coping mechanisms

> can and will change your life in a million ways and let you move from barely getting by to thriving as your most

Reviewer: Another run-on sentence:

```suggestion
can and will change your life in a million ways. You can move from barely getting by to thriving as your most
```
